[All hosts](SSO) How to deploy VS Code to Azure App Service (#3790)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/publish/deploy-office-add-in-sso-to-azure.md

---
title: Deploy an Office Add-in that uses single sign-on (SSO) to Microsoft Azure App Service | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn how to deploy an Office Add-in that uses single sign-on (SSO) to Microsoft Azure App Service from Visual Studio Code.
ms.date: 12/20/2020
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Deploy an Office Add-in that uses single sign-on (SSO) to Microsoft Azure App Service

Office Add-ins that use SSO require a web service that supports running the REST APIs and server-side code in the project. You can't deploy to a static website. Follow the steps in this article to deploy your Office Add-in to Azure App Service for staging or deployment.

> ## Requirements

Reviewer: You'll also need an Azure subscription.

```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

The steps in this article also require:
- [Azure Account extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.azure-account) for VS Code.
- [Azure App Service extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-azureappservice) for VS Code.

## Create the app service

The following steps set up a basic deployment of the Office Add-in. There are multiple ways to configure deployment that are not covered in this documentation. For additional options on how you may want to configure your deployment, see [Deployment Best Practices](/azure/app-service/deploy-best-practices)

1. Open your Office Add-in project in VS Code.
1. Select the Azure logo in the [Activity Bar](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/userinterface). If the Activity Bar is hidden, open it by selecting **View** > **Appearance** > **Activity Bar**.

> 1. In the **App Service** explorer, select **Sign in to Azure...** and follow the instructions.

Reviewer: Consider calling attention to the doc tab.
```suggestion
1. In the **App Service** explorer, select **Sign in to Azure...**. The following deployment instructions are for Linux and Windows. Select the tab in the documentation to see the appropriate steps.
```

Author: Fixed

    :::image type="content" source="../images/azure-extension-sign-in.png" alt-text="Sign in to Azure button selected in the Azure extension.":::

# [Deploy to Linux](#tab/linux)

1. Right-click on App Services and select **Create new Web App**. A Linux container is used by default.
1. Type a globally unique name for your web app and press **Enter**. The name must be unique across all of Azure and use only alphanumeric characters ('A-Z', 'a-z', and '0-9') and hyphens ('-').
1. In Select a runtime stack, select the **Node 16 LTS** runtime stack.
1. In Select a pricing tier, select **Free (F1)** and wait for the resources to be provisioned in Azure. When prompted to deploy, don't deploy the add-in yet. You'll do that in a later step.

# [Deploy to Windows](#tab/windows)

> 1. Right-click on App Services and select **Create new Web App... Advanced**.

Reviewer: My resources section was empty because I didn't have any subscriptions.

Author: resolved offline.

1. Type a globally unique name for your web app and press **Enter**. The name must be unique across all of Azure and use only alphanumeric characters ('A-Z', 'a-z', and '0-9') and hyphens ('-').

> 1. Select the resource group you wan to use. If you don't have a resource group, select **Create a new resource group**, then enter a name for the resource group, such as *AppServiceQS-rg*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select the resource group you want to use. If you don't have a resource group, select **Create a new resource group**, then enter a name for the resource group, such as *AppServiceQS-rg*.
```

1. Select the **Node 16 LTS** runtime stack.
1. Select **Windows** for the operating system.

> 1. Select the location you want to serve your app from. For example, *West Europe*.

Reviewer: I got this error the first time with West US 2. A different region worked. Maybe it's because the account is new?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/38896772/209880898-66480001-46d7-47da-b6ea-714a49a6d7ff.png)

Author: It looks like this could be region specific, or could depend on your subscription and what you've already allocated (free is probably more limited)? https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/quotas/view-quotas

1. Select the App Service plan you want to use. If you don't have an App Service plan, select **Create new App Service plan**, then enter a name for the plan (such as *AppServiceQS-plan*), then select **F1 Free**.
1. For **Select an Application Insights resource for your app**, select **Skip for now** and wait the resources to be provisioned in Azure. When prompted to deploy, don't deploy the add-in yet. You'll do that in a later step.
1. In the **App Service** explorer in Visual Studio code, expand the node for the new app, right-click **Application Settings**, and select **Add New Setting**:

:::image type="content" source="../images/azure-app-service-add-setting.png" alt-text="Add app setting command.":::

1. Enter `SCM_DO_BUILD_DURING_DEPLOYMENT` for the setting key.
1. Enter `true` for the setting value.

    This app setting enables build automation at deploy time, which automatically detects the start script and generates the *web.config* with it.

-----

1. Right-click your app service and select **Open in Portal**.

> 1. When the portal opens in the browser, copy the URL of the web site from the **Overview** pane and save it. You'll need it in later steps.

Reviewer: Consider adding this caveat, since when you copy the URL into the manifest, you're replacing spots with `https://localhost` and `api://localhost`.
```suggestion
1. When the portal opens in the browser, copy the URL of the web site from the **Overview** pane (not including the `https://` part) and save it. You'll need it in later steps.
```

## Update manifest

It's useful to maintain multiple manifests for testing across localhost, staging, and deployment. We recommend you copy the existing file and create a new manifest named **manifest-deployment.xml**.

1. Open the **manifest-deployment.xml** file.
1. Find all instances of the text `localhost:3000` and replace it with the domain of your app service URL you saved previously.
1. In the `<AppDomains>` section, add an `<AppDomain>` entry for your app service from the URL you saved previously. For example `<AppDomain>https://contoso-sso.azurewebsites.net</AppDomain>`.
1. Save the file.

## Update package.json

1. In the Visual Studio Code terminal, run the following command to modify the package to start the Node JS server when deployed.

    ```command

>     `npm pkg set start="node middletier.js"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    npm pkg set start="node middletier.js"
```

    ```

1. Run the following command to remove the `prestart` script which is not needed.

    ```command

>     `npm pkg delete scripts.prestart`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    npm pkg delete scripts.prestart
```

              to: "[name]" + "[ext]",
              transform(content) {
                if (dev) {
                  return content;
                } else {
                  return content.toString().replace(new RegExp(urlDev, "g"), urlProd);
                }
              },
            },
          ],
        }),
   ```

1. Save the file.

## Update fallbackauthdialog.js (or fallbackauthdialog.ts)

1. Open the **src/helpers/fallbackauthdialog.js** file, or **src/helpers/fallbackauthdialog.ts** if your project uses TypeScript.
1. Find the `redirectUri` on line 24 and change the value to use your app service URL you saved previously. For example, `redirectUri: "https://contoso-sso.azurewebsites.net/fallbackauthdialog.html",`
1. Save the file.

## Update .ENV

The **.ENV** file contains a client secret. For the purposes of learning in this article you can deploy the **.ENV** file to Azure. However for a production deployment, you should move the secret and any other confidential data into [Azure Key Vault](/azure/key-vault/general/basic-concepts).

1. Open the **.ENV** file.
1. Set the `NODE_ENV` variable to the value `production`.
1. Save the file.

> ## Update app.js (or app.ts)

Reviewer: Why are we doing this step? The other steps have justification in the article.

Author: Added justification.

    });
    
    app.use("/", indexRouter);
    
    app.get("/getuserdata", validateJwt, getUserData);
    
    // Catch 404 and forward to error handler
    app.use(function (req, res, next) {
      next(createError(404));
    });
    
    // error handler
    app.use(function (err, req, temp, res) {
      // set locals, only providing error in development
    
      res.locals.message = err.message;
      res.locals.error = req.app.get("env") === "development" ? err : {};
    
      // render the error page
      res.status(err.status || 500).send({
        message: err.message,
      });
    });
    
    app.listen(process.env.PORT, () => console.log("Server listening on port: " + process.env.PORT));
    ```

1. Save the file.

## Update app registration

We recommend you create multiple app registrations for localhost, staging, and deployment testing. The following steps ensure that the app registration you use for deployment correctly uses the app service URL.

1. In the Azure portal, open your app registration. Note that the app registration may be in a different account than your app service. Be sure to sign in to the correct account.

> 1. In the left sidebar, select **Authentication**.

Reviewer: FWIW, I got confused here because the Azure page I was already on had an Authentication section. Not sure how to make it more clear to go elsewhere...

Author: I added an image which hopefully makes this clear.

1. On the **Authentication** pane, find the `https://localhost:3000/fallbackauthdialog.html` and change it to use the app service URL you saved previously. For example, `https://contoso.sso.azurewebsites.net/fallbackauthdialog.html`.
1. Save the change.
1. In the left sidebar, select **Expose an API**.

> 1. Change the **Application ID URI** to use your app service URL you saved previously. For example, `api://contoso-sso.azurewebsites.net/628050c7-8d46-4f8f-a393-ac22eb688477`.

Reviewer: I got this error here:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/38896772/209881877-584d092a-b16b-48c5-9f05-2dc8a3e47652.png)

Author: It should be `api:` protocol, not https. I'll see if I can clear that up with the copy paste instructions.

1. Save the changes.

## Build and deploy

Once the files and app registration are updated, you can deploy the add-in.

1. In VS Code open the terminal and run the command `npm run build`. This will build a folder named `dist` that you can deploy.
1. In the VS Code **Explorer** browse to the `dist` folder. Right-click the `dist` folder and select **Deploy to Web App..**.
1. When prompted to select a resource, select the app service you created previously.
1. When prompted if you are sure, select **Deploy**.
1. When prompted to always deploy the workspace, choose **Yes**.

> If you make additional code change, you will need to run `npm run build` again and redeploy the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you make additional code changes, you'll need to run `npm run build` again and redeploy the project.
```

## Test the deployment

> Sideload the **manifest-deployment.xml** and test the functionality of the add-in in Office. For more information, see [Sideload an Office Add-in for testing](../testing/test-debug-office-add-ins.md#sideload-an-office-add-in-for-testing).

Reviewer: I ended up getting this error, which is probably because the Expose an API step failed.

"AADSTS500011: The resource principal named api://aljerabe-deploytest.azurewebsites.net/68554f15-e421-4b3a-9e8f-7541bb7191eb was not found in the tenant named 36fde7ea-8595-437c-aed6-60c976d36083. This can happen if the application has not been installed by the administrator of the tenant or consented to by any user in the tenant. You might have sent your authentication request to the wrong tenant.\r\nTrace ID: 0dfe38e3-425b-4094-841a-fcecabaa0700\r\nCorrelation ID: 2e781606-2cef-437c-942e-1679e5ed0f20\r\nTimestamp: 2022-12-28 22:54:40Z"

Author: Yep, most likely the api: https: mismatch.

---
title: Deploy an Office Add-in that uses single sign-on (SSO) to Microsoft Azure App Service | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn how to deploy an Office Add-in that uses single sign-on (SSO) to Microsoft Azure App Service from Visual Studio Code.
ms.date: 12/20/2020
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Deploy an Office Add-in that uses single sign-on (SSO) to Microsoft Azure App Service

> Office Add-ins that use SSO require a web service that supports running the REST APIs and server-side code in the project. You can't deploy to a static website. Follow the steps in this article to deploy your Office Add-in to Azure App Service for staging or deployment.

Author: @lindalu-MSFT does this fix work?

## Prerequisites

The steps in this article work for an Office Add-in created by the [Yeoman Generator for Office Add-ins](https://github.com/OfficeDev/generator-office) using the `Office Add-in Task Pane project supporting single sign-on (localhost)` project type. Be sure you have configured the add-in project so that it runs on localhost successfully. For more information, see the [Single sign-on (SSO) quick start](../quickstarts/sso-quickstart.md).

The steps in this article also require:

- An Azure account. Get a trial subscription at [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/).
- [Azure Account extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.azure-account) for VS Code.
- [Azure App Service extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-azureappservice) for VS Code.

## Create the App Service app

> The following steps set up a basic deployment of the Office Add-in. There are multiple ways to configure deployment that are not covered in this documentation. For additional options on how you may want to configure your deployment, see [Deployment Best Practices](/azure/app-service/deploy-best-practices)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following steps set up a basic deployment of the Office Add-in. There are multiple ways to configure deployment that aren't covered in this documentation. For additional options on how to configure your deployment, see [Deployment Best Practices](/azure/app-service/deploy-best-practices).
```

Reviewer: @davidchesnut, looks like this suggestion was passed over. Style aside, the missing period is important.

## Update webpack.config.js

1. Open the **webpack.config.js** file.
1. Set the `urlDev` and `urlProd` constants to the following values (without the `https` protocol portion). This will cause webpack to replace `localhost:3000` with your web site domain name in the `/dest/manifest.xml` file.

    ```javascript
    const urlDev = "localhost:3000";
    const urlProd = "<your-web-site-domain-name>";   
    ```

1. Find the first `CopyWebpackPlugin` section and update it to also copy the package.json file to the dist folder as shown in the following example.

    ```javascript
    new CopyWebpackPlugin({
        patterns: [
        {
            from: "assets/*",
            to: "assets/[name][ext][query]",
        },
        {
            from: "package.json",
            to: "package.json",
        },
        {
            from: "manifest*.xml",
            to: "[name]" + "[ext]",
            transform(content) {
                if (dev) {
                    return content;
                } else {
                    return content.toString().replace(new RegExp(urlDev, "g"), urlProd);
                }
            },
        },
      ],
    }),
    ```

1. Save the file.

> ## Update manifest

Reviewer: Don't you need to change all references to localhost:3000 in the manifest?

Author: You could do it either way. Replace contoso with localhost and the previous step will auto-transform it. Or just follow the steps below and use your actual domain (as contoso isn't yours anyway.) My plan is to follow up with a PR on the template to change this to localhost:3000 and then this step will go away.
